README.md, before:

# SixArm.com » Ruby » <br> Numeric #round, #floor, #ceil methods with precision

* Doc: <http://sixarm.com/sixarm_ruby_numeric_round/doc>
* Gem: <http://rubygems.org/gems/sixarm_ruby_numeric_round>
* Repo: <http://github.com/sixarm/sixarm_ruby_numeric_round>
* Email: Joel Parker Henderson, <joel@sixarm.com>


## Introduction

Simple numeric rounding methods like #round, #floor, #ceil with various precisions.

For docs go to <http://sixarm.com/sixarm_ruby_numeric_round/doc>

Want to help? We're happy to get pull requests.


## Install quickstart

Install:

    gem install sixarm_ruby_numeric_round

Bundler:

    gem "sixarm_ruby_numeric_round", "~>1.0.0"

Require:

    require "sixarm_ruby_numeric_round"


## Install with security (optional)

To enable high security for all our gems:

    wget http://sixarm.com/sixarm.pem
    gem cert --add sixarm.pem
    gem sources --add http://sixarm.com

To install with high security:

    gem install sixarm_ruby_numeric_round --test --trust-policy HighSecurity


## Examples

Round at a given decimal point:

    4.555.ceil_at(1)  #=> 4.6
    4.555.floor_at(1)  #=> 4.5
    4.555.round_at(1)  #=> 4.6

Round to a given precision:

    4.555.ceil_to(0.1)   #=> 4.6
    4.555.floor_to(0.1)  #=> 4.5
    4.555.round_to(0.1)  #=> 4.6

Conceptually, the methods for round, floor, and ceil will typically be for floating point numbers.
However, these methods can actually be for pretty much any Numeric object.
For example, one could round an Integer to the nearest kilo.


## Credit

These methods are based on the Facets library for Ruby and the developer named Trans. 

The #round_at and #round_to methods are exact copies and fully compatible with Facets. The rest of the methods are very similar code and fully co-existant with Facets. 

We're asking the Facets team to consider including the rest of the methods.


## Changes

* 2012-05-30 1.0.0 Create baesd on Facets methods by Trans.


## License

You may choose any of these open source licenses:

  * Apache License
  * BSD License
  * CreativeCommons License, Non-commercial Share Alike
  * GNU General Public License Version 2 (GPL 2)
  * GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL)
  * MIT License
  * Perl Artistic License
  * Ruby License

The software is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind,
express or implied, including but not limited to the warranties of
merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and noninfringement.

In no event shall the authors or copyright holders be liable for any
claim, damages or other liability, whether in an action of contract,
tort or otherwise, arising from, out of or in connection with the
software or the use or other dealings in the software.

This license is for the included software that is created by SixArm;
some of the included software may have its own licenses, copyrights,
authors, etc. and these do take precedence over the SixArm license.

Copyright (c) 2005-2012 Joel Parker Henderson

Commit message:

Add #truncate_at and #truncate_to

README.md, after:

# SixArm.com » Ruby » <br> Numeric #round, #floor, #ceil methods with precision

* Doc: <http://sixarm.com/sixarm_ruby_numeric_round/doc>
* Gem: <http://rubygems.org/gems/sixarm_ruby_numeric_round>
* Repo: <http://github.com/sixarm/sixarm_ruby_numeric_round>
* Email: Joel Parker Henderson, <joel@sixarm.com>


## Introduction

Simple numeric rounding methods like #round, #floor, #ceil with various precisions.

For docs go to <http://sixarm.com/sixarm_ruby_numeric_round/doc>

Want to help? We're happy to get pull requests.


## Install quickstart

Install:

    gem install sixarm_ruby_numeric_round

Bundler:

    gem "sixarm_ruby_numeric_round", "~>1.0.0"

Require:

    require "sixarm_ruby_numeric_round"


## Install with security (optional)

To enable high security for all our gems:

    wget http://sixarm.com/sixarm.pem
    gem cert --add sixarm.pem
    gem sources --add http://sixarm.com

To install with high security:

    gem install sixarm_ruby_numeric_round --test --trust-policy HighSecurity


## Examples

Round at a given decimal point:

    4.555.ceil_at(1)  #=> 4.6
    4.555.floor_at(1)  #=> 4.5
    4.555.round_at(1)  #=> 4.6
    4.555.truncate_at(1)  #=> 4.5

Round to a given precision:

    4.555.ceil_to(0.1)   #=> 4.6
    4.555.floor_to(0.1)  #=> 4.5
    4.555.round_to(0.1)  #=> 4.6
    4.555.truncate_to(0.1)  #=> 4.5

Conceptually, the methods for round, floor, ceil, and truncate will typically be for floating point numbers.
However, these methods can actually be for pretty much any Numeric object.
For example, one could round an Integer to the nearest kilo.


## Credit

These methods are based on the Facets library for Ruby and the developer named Trans. 

The #round_at and #round_to methods are exact copies and fully compatible with Facets. The rest of the methods are very similar code and fully co-existant with Facets. 

We're asking the Facets team to consider including the rest of the methods.


## Changes

* 2012-09-01 1.0.1 Add #truncate_at and #truncate_to.
* 2012-05-30 1.0.0 Create baesd on Facets methods by Trans.


## License

You may choose any of these open source licenses:

  * Apache License
  * BSD License
  * CreativeCommons License, Non-commercial Share Alike
  * GNU General Public License Version 2 (GPL 2)
  * GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL)
  * MIT License
  * Perl Artistic License
  * Ruby License

The software is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind,
express or implied, including but not limited to the warranties of
merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and noninfringement.

In no event shall the authors or copyright holders be liable for any
claim, damages or other liability, whether in an action of contract,
tort or otherwise, arising from, out of or in connection with the
software or the use or other dealings in the software.

This license is for the included software that is created by SixArm;
some of the included software may have its own licenses, copyrights,
authors, etc. and these do take precedence over the SixArm license.

Copyright (c) 2005-2012 Joel Parker Henderson
